---
layout: post
title: DevCon 2019
subtitle: The Developer's Conference
tags: [devcon, mscc, sessions, ansible, playbooks, ipv6, nftables, stm32, arm microcontroller]
comments: true

slider:
  text_color: white
  shadow_color: black
  slides: 
    - image: /img/devcon/ansible.jpg
      slide_html: Session on Ansible
    - image: /img/devcon/tcp-ip.jpg
      slide_html: Session on IPv6 - TCP/IP
    - image: /img/devcon/ipv6-connections.jpg
      slide_html: Session on IPv6 - Connections
    - image: /img/devcon/nftables.jpg
      slide_html: Session on nftables
    - image: /img/devcon/notes.jpg
      slide_html: Notes I made
    - image: /img/devcon/good-food.jpg
      slide_html: Some great food
    - image: /img/devcon/stm32.jpg
      slide_html: Session on STM32 Microcontroller
    - image: /img/devcon/team.jpg
      slide_html: CyberStorm.mu team and some other people
---

This was the first devcon I attended. I had applied for a session where 
I would’ve made a video game from scratch in under 1 hour live but sadly, 
it was declined. I only went for some hours for the last 2 days of the 
event in the afternoon. Myself being in an ever growing team of developers, 
I met my peers first when I reached and stayed with them. I chatted, laughed 
and ate a lot. During these days of devcon, 4 of my peers had their sessions.

On day 1, one of my peers had a session on Ansible. Ansible itself is an 
open-source software provisioning, configuration management, and application 
deployment tool. We learnt how tasks across servers can be automated using 
Ansible and the benefits of using it. For example, if there were servers 
handling x requests usually, if they suddenly got 10x requests, Ansible could 
help to determine how these should be properly handled. We also learnt how this 
tool was becoming more popular. As it was agentless, only one machine could 
have it to perform tasks on other machines, provided prerequisites are available 
such as ssh. Playbooks, which are basically .yml files consisting of commands that 
Ansible should run and actually commands that Ansible can run were also explained 
(ping, push, pull, doc). Terminologies such as tasks, modules, handlers, variables, 
templates, groups and vault were explained along with a live demo of using virtual 
machines. There were also a brief talk about Ansible-Galaxy, which basically 
organises files/directories and we were given tips such as using the verbose and
superuser modes as far as possible.

I then went to another session talking about IPv6. Basically, all devices 
over the Internet have a unique IP address to send and receive data. The 
current version (IPv4) will soon run out of IP addresses to allocate to 
each device due to the growing number of devices on the Internet. A member 
of the Afrinic, the regional Internet registry for Africa led the talk by 
introducing the benefits of adopting IPv6. IPv6 can allocate approximately 
340 undecillion IP addresses to devices over the Internet, eliminating the 
need to allocate the same IP address to a device when the one having had it 
goes offline. IPv6 achieves this by using 128 bits and a hexadecimal style 
instead of its predecessor which used 32 bits and a binary style. He also 
talked about how developers should use IPv6 as default and fallback to IPv4 
if unavailable using the Apple App store which forces developers implementing 
network services as an example. He then talked about Unicast, Multicast and 
Anycast when connections had to be made in IPv6 using great examples. More 
things out of my comprehension were discussed too.

There was only one talk left for the day from another one of my peers. He 
talked about nftables. Nftables is a subsystem of the Linux kernel providing 
filtering and classification of network packets/datagrams/frames. It can be 
used to filter and analyse connections. We were continuously using the 
example of setupping a firewall. Using nftables, we can determine connections 
to which website need to be allowed based on packets sent and received. 
It is way easier to use nftables to define these rules than using iptables 
which for example would have necessitated to be adapted for IPv4 and IPv6. 
It was quite complicated to comprehend though.

On Day 2, I only came to attend one session by yet another one of my peers. 
I was taken up half of the day and I didn’t find the remaining ones 
interesting enough. He talked about the STM32 which is a family of 32 bit 
ARM-based microcontrollers. He explained the benefits of using them due to 
their low cost and the differences between the real and counterfeit ones. 
He then proceeded to show up a live demo of how easy it is to get program 
templates on the Internet for a wide variety of microcontrollers as well 
as compiling them, before flashing them on his board. He demonstrated a 
“Hello World” program using blinking leds and then on a display. He then
showed us the specs sheets for some microcontrollers and some of the 
things that they can do before finally giving everybody who attended his
session a PCB with a led that lights on as soon as it is plugged in a USB port.
